# KB000006: Migrating the Access Manager Database

## Summary

This document outlines the steps required to migrate the Access Manager database from the built-in SQL express instance, to a standalone SQL server or cluster.

## Procedure

1. As always, take a full system backup of the AMS server before making any changes
2. Stop the Access Manager service
3. Backup the existing database. You can install SQL Management Studio to do this, but it can be done any way you prefer such as using command line tools.
4. Stop the SQL Express service instance
5. Restore the database onto the new SQL server
6. Once restored, you'll need to grant the AMS service account `db_owner` rights on the database, and set the default database for the user to `AccessManager`. These permissions won't exist, as SQL Express uses a service-based ACL that won't work on a remote server.

You can run the [database creation script](../../installation/installing-the-access-manager-server/sql-installation-options) shown in the installation guide to set the appopriate permissions. It won't create the database if it already exists, but it will fix the missing permissions. If you use the script, make sure you replace the value of the `@ServiceAccount` variable to match the AMS service account you use.

7. Using the registry editor on the AMS server replace the `ConnectionString` value inside `HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\SOFTWARE\Lithnet\Access Manager Service\Parameters`, with the new server details. For example, for a server called  `SQLDBServer.domain.local` the connection string will become `Server=SQLDBSERVER.domain.local;Initial Catalog=AccessManager;`. 

8. Start the Access Manager service, and you should be back up and running.
9. Uninstall SQL express and delete any old database files

## Troubleshooting
- If the service fails to start, check the `access-manager-service.log` file in `C:\Program Files\Lithnet\Access Manager Service\logs` for more details on why the service did not start
- Check the `Lithnet Access Manager` application event log for error information
- Check the windows `Application` event log for error information
- Validate that the permissions on the DB were granted correctly. The service accounts needs permission to connect to the database server, and `db_owner` permission on the database itself.